Agency X is a medium size agency that has been working on a range of digital projects over the past five years.  They redesigned their website, are active on social media and last year launched an open data effort that is still ongoing.  The new media team is based out of the Communciations Office and has five full-time members who lead most of the agency's digital efforts, with the assistance of new media liaisons in each of the agency's 15 bureaus and offices.  The new media team doesn't yet have an API program but has noticed their growth in government and are aware that this is an upcoming need.  They do not have an API strategy but an upcoming project being delivered by the CIO's office includes one.  

Scenario 1: The upcoming project rolls out with an API and next year, two other agency projects include requirements for APIs. These three APIs lack consistency and sometimes include common government mistakes.  For example, one is documented by a downloadable PDF, two offer XML, one requires API keys but averages a 24 hour turnaround when one is requested, and none offer a public feedback mechanism or a means of signing up for developer updates.  The vast majority of agency information and functionality is not dynamically available and there is little developer engagement.  Whenever an agency staffer has an idea to prototypeor desires to publish an API for their data, they do not readily have this ability.  To produce even the simplest API, they  need to build requirements, engage with the CIO's office, find budget, and put in significant effort to drive the effort.  

3rd party developers do not see indications of a strong developer experience and are suspicious that it would be 'typical government'.  They may play with the limited API offerings but are hesitant to invest significant time or to rely on them for production apps since they have learned from experience that this is risky.  

In 2016, the CIO shop adds to its future plans the intention of building an enterprise API capacity for the agency, set to launch in 2017.  At that point, some staff begin to discuss API standards for the agency and a strategy for future steps.  The agency hires a chief data officer in 2017 who takes on the role of facilitating these efforts.  At this point, the agency begins to transition from the beginner to the intermediate stage of API maturity.  

Scenario 2 - 


